## Meteorological Variable Definitions

### All Requests Except Hazard Indices and Graphical Summaries

**"precipitation"** 24-hour (OR monthly for "monthly forecast" and "departures (anomalies)" requests) accumulation of precipitation of all types in millimetres (mm) spatially averaged over the native grid area (5 kilometres)

### Hazard Indices

Hazard Indices or 'Scores' are generated by comparing forecasts against a 15-year climatology dataset derived from the [UERRA MESCAN-SURFEX](https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/cdsapp#!/dataset/reanalysis-uerra-europe-single-levels?tab=overview) 4.5km reanalysis requests. Documentation and further information is available from the Copernicus Climate Data Store (CDS).**

Both the daily ensemble weather forecast data and observations are statistically processed to generate confidence intervals at each decile (10th, 20th, 30th, 40th, 50th, 60th, 70th, 80th, 90th, 100th). An index unit of 5.0 indicates a forecast that is on par with the historical measurements (from UERRA reanalysis) spanning the years 2004 to 2018. A shift of one decile category unit in the seasonal climate forecast increases the likelihood of more extreme weather, and increases the hazard index by one unit.

**"drought"** <ins>Drought Indices</ins> are calculated by comparing the 20th centile of ensemble forecasts of dry days/ PR20 (where precipitation exceeds 0.1 millimetres per day) against closely spatially matched measurements of drought conditions from recent history. The minimum threshold of 0.1mm avoids multiple decile probability of occurrence categories of zero precipitation, which is commonplace in arid climates. Index values of 1 indicate that the likelihood of extreme drier-than-average conditions is low, while an index of 9 indicate that that extreme drought is more likely within the seasonal period (potentially water shortages linked to crop failure and domestic water supply and quality issues).
See further information on the [Drought Index](https://github.com/cjnankervis/Re-Climate/blob/main/About-Hazard-Indices.md#drought-index).

**"precipitation"** <ins>Flood Scores</ins> are calculated by comparing the 80th centile of ensemble forecasts of wet days/ PR80 (where precipitation exceeds 1.0mm per day) against closely spatially matched measurements of hydrological conditions from recent history. Index values of 1 indicate that the likelihood of extreme wetter-than-average conditions from heavier downpours is low, while an index of 9 indicate that that extreme precipitation (potentially flash flooding) is more likely within the seasonal period.
See further information on the [Precipitation Index](https://github.com/cjnankervis/Re-Climate/blob/main/About-Hazard-Indices.md#precipitation-index).

**"spi"** <ins>SPI</ins> (Standard Precipitation Index) is calculated by comparing the 50th centile of ensemble forecasts of non-drizzle days/ PR50 (where precipitation exceeds 0.3 millimetres per day) against closely spatially matched measurements of hydrological conditions obtained from recent history. The minimum threshold of 0.3mm is a calibrated value to account for less reliable observations of lighter precipitation events. Index values of 1 indicate that the weight of the season (or month) indicates more drier-than-average days, while an index of 9 indicate that excess precipitation days (potentially leading to groundwater flooding or extended wet periods) are likely to be more frequent than average. Caution neeed to be exercised, since kurtosis and skew of the local distribution of daily precipitation days may produce regional artefacts that may affect the quality of the analysis.
See further information on the [SPI](https://github.com/cjnankervis/Re-Climate/blob/main/About-Hazard-Indices.md#standardized-precipitation-index-spi).

### Graphical Summaries

**"EXCEEDANCES"** <ins>Exceedance curves</ins> compare daily precipitation from a collection of realizations (ensemble members) at different intensities. These are compared directly against spatially correlated UERRA reanalyses from a 15-year history between the years 2004 and 2018. Where the forecast curve exceeds/ subceeds the historical reference at a precipitation intensity threshold, the rate of precipitation is likely to be more/ less intense. 

## Acknowledgements

*Contains modified Copernicus Climate Change Service information 2022. Neither the European Commission nor ECMWF is responsible for any use that may be made of the Copernicus information or data it contains.
